# C++11 Demos

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Building and Running the Demos on Linux and macOS](#building-and-running-the-demos-on-linux-and-macos)
- [Building and Running the Demos on Windows](#building-and-running-the-demos-on-windows)
- [Building the Demo Apps for Universal Windows Platform (UWP)](#building-the-demo-apps-for-universal-windows-platform-uwp)

## Overview

This directory contains C++ sample programs for various Ice components; they all
use the Ice C++11 mapping. These examples are provided to get you started on
using a particular Ice feature or coding technique.

Most of the subdirectories here correspond directly to Ice components, such as
[IceGrid](./IceGrid), [Glacier2](./Glacier2), and so on. We've also included the
following additional subdirectories:

- [Manual](./Manual) contains complete examples for some of the code snippets
in the [Ice manual][1].

- [Chat](./Chat) contains the C++ server, and two command-line clients
for the ZeroC [Chat Demo][2].

## Building and Running the Demos on Linux and macOS

### Prerequisites

The makefiles require GNU make.

On macOS, the command-line demos require the Xcode Command Line Tools (use
`xcode-select --install` to install them). The Xcode sample program for iOS
require the [Ice Builder for Xcode][3].

If you install Ice in a non-standard location, you need to set the `ICE_HOME`
environment variable to the installation directory, for example:
```
export ICE_HOME=~/testing/ice
```

### Building the Demos

Review the settings in `../make/Make.rules`. For example, set `OPTIMIZE=yes`
to build with optimization.

When you are ready to start the build, run `make`, for example:
```
make V=1
```

`V=1` turns on verbose output.

The `clean` and `distclean` targets allow you clean all the demos. `clean`
removes the binary files created by the build; `distclean` removes all these
files plus the C++ source files generated by slice2cpp.

Note that `make clean` only removes the binary files for the configuration and
platform specified by the `CONFIGS` and `PLATFORMS` variables in `Make.rules`.

You can also build or clean a single demo with `make <demo-path>[_clean|_distclean]`,
for example:
```
make V=1 Ice/hello
make Ice/hello_distclean
```

To build the Xcode iOS example, open `C++11 demos (iOS).xcworkspace` in Xcode.

### Running the Demos

Refer to the README.md file in each demo directory for usage instructions.

## Building and Running the Demos on Windows

### Prerequisites

If you are using Visual Studio 2017, you need to either:
 - install the following optional component of the `Desktop development with C++` workload:
   `Windows 8.1 SDK and UCRT SDK`
 - or retarget the solution to a version of the Windows 10 SDK already installed
   (using `Project > Retarget solution`)

Failure to perform this step results in error MSB8036 when building any project:
```
The Windows SDK version 8.1 was not found. Install the required version of Windows SDK
or change the SDK version in the project property pages or by right-clicking the solution and selecting "Retarget solution".
```

### Building the Demos

#### Building the demos using NuGet packages:

Open the solution file `C++11 demos.sln` to build the sample programs.

The demos are configured to use Ice C++ binary distribution, packaged with
NuGet. The build downloads automatically the Ice NuGet package.

If you have disabled the automatic download of NuGet packages by Visual Studio,
you need to restore the packages before you build using `Tools > NuGet Package
Manager > Manage NuGet Packages for Solution...` in Visual Studio.

Then select your target configuration (Debug or Release) and platform (Win32
or x64). Right click on the desired demo in the Solution Explorer window and
select `Build`.

#### Building the demos with Ice source distribution:

- Build from command line:
  * Open a Visual Studio command prompt
  ```
  cd ice-demos\cpp11
  MSBuild /p:IceHome=<Ice dist path> /p:Configuration=<Release or Debug> msbuild\ice.proj
  ```
  `Ice dist path` represents a source tree where you built Ice for C++.

- Build from Visual Studio
  * Open a Visual Studio command prompt
  ```
  cd ice-demos\cpp11
  MSBuild /p:IceHome=<Ice dist path> /p:Configuration=<Release or Debug> /t:InstallLocalPackages msbuild\ice.proj
  ```
  The command above creates NuGet packages for the source tree designated by
  `Ice dist path` (and first builds this source tree if needed), and then installs these
  NuGet packages in the `ice-demos\cpp11\packages` folder.

  * Start Visual Studio, open the `C++11 demos.sln` solution, and select your target
    configuration (Debug or Release) and platform (Win32 or x64). Right click on the
    desired demo in the Solution Explorer window and select `Build`.

### Running the Demos

You need to add the Ice `bin` directory to your PATH before running the demos.

If you are building Debug, add both the Debug and Release `bin` directories with a
command similar to:
```
set PATH=%USERPROFILE%\ice-demos\cpp11\packages\zeroc.ice.v140.4.0.0-alpha.0\build\native\bin\x64\Debug;%USERPROFILE%\ice-demos\cpp11\packages\zeroc.ice.v140.4.0.0-alpha.0\build\native\bin\x64\Release;%PATH%
```

This is required because the Debug `bin` directories provide only a subset of all
Ice services and tools. For example, they don't provide `glacier2router`.

If you are building Release, you should add only the Release `bin` directory to
your PATH with a command similar to:
```
set PATH=%USERPROFILE%\ice-demos\cpp11\packages\zeroc.ice.v140.4.0.0-alpha.0\build\native\bin\x64\Release;%PATH%
```

Then refer to the README.md file in each demo directory for usage instructions.

## Building the Demo Apps for Universal Windows Platform (UWP)

### Building the Demos

#### Building the demos using NuGet packages:

Open the solution file `C++11 demos (Universal Windows).sln`.

If you have disabled the automatic download of NuGet packages by Visual Studio,
you need to restore the packages before you build using `Tools > NuGet Package
Manager > Manage NuGet Packages for Solution...` in Visual Studio.

The NuGet packages for UWP consist mostly of static libraries and PDB files
and are very large (about 300 MB compressed for each compiler). As a result, the
first restore can take a long time; subsequent restores on the same computer are
faster as they use the local NuGet cache.

Next, select your target configuration (Debug or Release), and platform (Win32 or x64).
Right click on the desired demo in the Solution Explorer window and select `Build`.

#### Building the demos using an Ice source build:

- Build from command line:
  * Open a Visual Studio command prompt
  ```
  cd ice-demos\cpp11
  MSBuild /p:IceHome=<Ice dist path> /p:Configuration=<Release or Debug> /t:UWPBuild msbuild\ice.proj
  ```
  `Ice dist path` represents a source tree where you built Ice for C++.

- Build from Visual Studio
  * Open a Visual Studio command prompt
  ```
  cd ice-demos\cpp11
  MSBuild /p:IceHome=<Ice dist path> /p:Configuration=<Release or Debug> /t:UWPInstallLocalPackages msbuild\ice.proj
  ```
  The command above creates NuGet packages for the source tree designated by
  `Ice dist path` (and first builds this source tree if needed), and then installs these
  NuGet packages in the `ice-demos\cpp11\packages` folder.

  * Start Visual Studio, open the `C++11 demos (Universal Windows).sln` solution, and
    select your target configuration (Debug or Release) and platform (Win32 or x64).
    Right click on the desired demo in the Solution Explorer window and select `Build`.

### Running the Demos

Refer to the README.md file in each demo directory for usage instructions.

[1]: https://doc.zeroc.com/ice/4.0/introduction
[2]: https://doc.zeroc.com/technical-articles/general-topics/chat-demo
[3]: https://github.com/zeroc-ice/ice-builder-xcode
